Add slim images to release process (#23391)
mistercrunch/Airflow: docs/docker-stack/build.rst

Before you dive-deeply in the way how the Airflow Image is built, let us first explain why you might need
to build the custom container image and we show a few typical ways you can do it.

Quick start scenarios of image extending
----------------------------------------

The most common scenarios where you want to build your own image are adding a new ``apt`` package,
adding a new ``PyPI`` dependency and embedding DAGs into the image.
Example Dockerfiles for those scenarios are below, and you can read further
for more complex cases which might involve either extending or customizing the image. You will find

> more information about more complex scenarios below, but if your goal is to quickly extend airflow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
more information about more complex scenarios below, but if your goal is to quickly extend the Airflow
```

image with new provider, package, etc. then here is a quick start for you.

Adding new ``apt`` package
..........................

> The following example adds ``vim`` to the airflow image. When adding packages via ``apt`` you should

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example adds ``vim`` to the Airflow image. When adding packages via ``apt`` you should
```

> switch to ``root`` user for the time of installation, but do not forget to switch back to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
switch to the ``root`` user when running the ``apt`` commands, but do not forget to switch back to the
```

``airflow`` user after installation is complete.

.. exampleinclude:: docker-examples/extending/add-apt-packages/Dockerfile
    :language: Dockerfile
    :start-after: [START Dockerfile]
    :end-before: [END Dockerfile]

Adding a new ``PyPI`` package
.............................

The following example adds ``lxml`` python package from PyPI to the image. When adding packages via

> ``pip`` you need to use ``airflow`` user rather than ``root``. Attempts to install ``pip`` packages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``pip`` you need to use the ``airflow`` user rather than ``root``. Attempts to install ``pip`` packages
```

> with root, when you use typical ``pip install`` command will fail with appropriate error message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as ``root`` will fail with an appropriate error message.
```

> with root, when you using typical ``pip install`` command will fail with appropriate error message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with root, when using typical ``pip install`` command, will fail with an appropriate error message.
```

.. exampleinclude:: docker-examples/extending/add-pypi-packages/Dockerfile
    :language: Dockerfile
    :start-after: [START Dockerfile]
    :end-before: [END Dockerfile]

Embedding DAGs
..............

The following example adds ``test_dag.py`` to your image in the ``/opt/airflow/dags`` folder.

.. exampleinclude:: docker-examples/extending/embedding-dags/Dockerfile
    :language: Dockerfile
    :start-after: [START Dockerfile]
    :end-before: [END Dockerfile]

.. exampleinclude:: docker-examples/extending/embedding-dags/test_dag.py
    :language: Python
    :start-after: [START dag]
    :end-before: [END dag]

Extending vs. customizing the image
-----------------------------------

You might want to know very quickly whether you need to extend or customize the existing image
for Apache Airflow. This chapter gives you a short answer to those questions.

Here is the comparison of the two types of building images. Here is your guide if you want to choose

> how you want to build your image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is the comparison of the two approaches:
```

+----------------------------------------------------+-----------+-------------+
|                                                    | Extending | Customizing |
+====================================================+===========+=============+

> | Uses familiar 'FROM ' pattern of image building    | Yes       | No          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Uses familiar 'FROM' pattern of image building     | Yes       | No          |
```

+----------------------------------------------------+-----------+-------------+
| Requires only basic knowledge about images         | Yes       | No          |
+----------------------------------------------------+-----------+-------------+
| Builds quickly                                     | Yes       | No          |
+----------------------------------------------------+-----------+-------------+
| Produces image heavily optimized for size          | No        | Yes         |
+----------------------------------------------------+-----------+-------------+
| Can build from custom airflow sources (forks)      | No        | Yes         |
+----------------------------------------------------+-----------+-------------+
| Can build on air-gaped system                      | No        | Yes         |
+----------------------------------------------------+-----------+-------------+

> TL;DR; If you have a need to build custom image, it is easier to start with "Extending" however if your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TL;DR; If you have a need to build a custom image, it is easier to start with "Extending". However, if your
```

> dependencies require compilation step or when your require to build the image from security vetted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dependencies require compilation steps or when your require to build the image from security vetted
```

packages, switching to "Customizing" the image provides much more optimized images. In the example further
where we compare equivalent "Extending" and "Customizing" the image, similar images build by
Extending vs. Customization had shown 1.1GB vs 874MB image sizes respectively - with 20% improvement in

> size of the Customized image.

Reviewer: I'm having trouble interpreting this section. I think this is what it should be?

```suggestion
packages, switching to "Customizing" the image provides much more optimized images. For example,
if we compare equivalent images built by "Extending" and "Customization", they end up being
1.1GB and 874MB respectively - a 20% improvement in size for the Customized image.
```

  of storing and exposing the images, and it is most portable way of publishing the image. Both
  Docker-Compose and Kubernetes can make use of images exposed via registries.

Extending the image
-------------------

Extending the image is easiest if you just need to add some dependencies that do not require
compiling. The compilation framework of Linux (so called ``build-essential``) is pretty big, and
for the production images, size is really important factor to optimize for, so our Production Image

> does not contain ``build-essential``. If you need compiler like gcc or g++ or make/cmake etc. - those

Reviewer: ```suggestion
does not contain ``build-essential``. If you need a compiler like gcc or g++ or make/cmake etc. - those
```

are not found in the image and it is recommended that you follow the "customize" route instead.

How to extend the image - it is something you are most likely familiar with - simply
build a new image using Dockerfile's ``FROM`` directive and add whatever you need. Then you can add your
Debian dependencies with ``apt`` or PyPI dependencies with ``pip install`` or any other stuff you need.

Base images
...........

> There are two types Of images you can extend your image from:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two types of images you can extend your image from:
```

> 1) Regular airflow image that contains most useful extras and providers, contains all supported backend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1) Regular Airflow image that contains the most common extras and providers, and all supported backend
```

   database clients for AMD64 platform and Postgres for ARM64 platform.

> 2) Slim airflow image which is a minimum image you can start from it contains all supported backends

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2) Slim Airflow image, which is a minimal image, contains all supported backends
```

>    database clients installed for AMD64 platform and Postgres for ARM64 platform. It contains no extras,
>    no providers installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   database clients installed for AMD64 platform and Postgres for ARM64 platform, but contains no extras or
   providers outside of the 4 default providers.
```

.. note:: Differences of slim image vs. regular image.

    The slim image is small comparing to regular image (~500 MB vs ~1.1GB) and you might need to add a
    lot more packages and providers in order to make it useful for your case (but if you use only a
    small subset of providers, it might be a good starting point for you).

    The slim images might have dependencies in different versions than those used when providers are

>     preinstalled, simply because core airflow might have less limits on the versions on its own.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    preinstalled, simply because core Airflow might have less limits on the versions on its own.
```

  of storing and exposing the images, and it is most portable way of publishing the image. Both
  Docker-Compose and Kubernetes can make use of images exposed via registries.

Extending the image
-------------------

Extending the image is easiest if you just need to add some dependencies that do not require
compiling. The compilation framework of Linux (so called ``build-essential``) is pretty big, and
for the production images, size is really important factor to optimize for, so our Production Image
does not contain ``build-essential``. If you need compiler like gcc or g++ or make/cmake etc. - those
are not found in the image and it is recommended that you follow the "customize" route instead.

How to extend the image - it is something you are most likely familiar with - simply
build a new image using Dockerfile's ``FROM`` directive and add whatever you need. Then you can add your
Debian dependencies with ``apt`` or PyPI dependencies with ``pip install`` or any other stuff you need.

Base images
...........

> There are two types if images you can extend your image from:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two types of images you can extend your image from:
```

| Image type            | Python            | Standard image                   | Slim image                                     |
+=======================+===================+==================================+================================================+
| Latest default image  | 3.7               | apache/airflow:latest            | apache/airflow:slim-DATABASE-latest            |
| Default image         | 3.7               | apache/airflow:X.Y.Z             | apache/airflow:slim-DATABASE-X.Y.Z             |
| Latest regular image  | 3.7,3.8,3.8,3.10  | apache/airflow:latest-pythonN.M  | apache/airflow:slim-DATABASE-latest-pythonN.M  |
| Regular image         | 3.7,3.8,3.8,3.10  | apache/airflow:X.Y.Z-pythonN.M   | apache/airflow:slim-DATABASE-X.Y.Z-pythonN.M   |
+-----------------------+-------------------+----------------------------------+------------------------------------------------+

* The "latest" image is always latest released stable version available.
* the DATABASE: one of mysql, postgres, mssql

The platform support for slim images depends on the database used. While for "regular" images, there

> is a support for both AMD64 and ARM64 platform (where ARM64 images do not support MySQL and MsSQL), for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is support for both AMD64 and ARM64 platform (where ARM64 images do not support MySQL and MsSQL), for
```
